# Introduction #

You get a lot of files when you check out haggle, and their locations and functions might not seem obvious to start with. Below is an overview of which files are where, and why.

# The root folder #

When you clone the haggle repository, the root folder contains the following sub-folders:
```
 android/
 macosx/
 iphone/
 windows/
 winmobile/
 bin/
 libs/
 benchmark/
 resources/
 m4/
 doc/
 extlibs/
 testsuite/
 src/
```
The contents of these folders will be explained further down the page.

The root folder also includes a few files worth noting:

```
 configure.ac
 Makefile.am
 Android.mk
 .hgingore
```

configure.ac and Makefile.am are used to set up haggle on machines where autotools and make are available. Android.mk is a makefile for Android. .hgignore is a file listing those files which mercurial should ignore (generally speaking, files that are generated by the compilers and other tools used to develop haggle).

# Folders named after operating systems #

These folders:
```
 android/
 macosx/
 iphone/
 windows/
 winmobile/
```
are named after operating systems. In each of these there are files to help building haggle for that platform. The folders may also contain platform-specific applications.

  * In the case of `windows/` and `winmobile/`, these folders contain Visual Studio project files for building haggle and other parts of the source code.
  * In the case of `iphone/`, the folder contains an Xcode project, that will allow you to compile haggle for the iPhone.
  * In the case of `macosx/`, the folder contains a few Xcode projects that will allow you to compile haggle using xcode. This does not mean that you can't use autotools and make on Mac OS X, in fact it works just as well as on linux.
  * In the case of `android/`, the folder contains, among other things, source code for Android applications and scripts for installing Haggle on Android phones.

# Folders with little to no content #

In the case of these folders:
```
 bin/
 libs/
 benchmark/
 resources/
 m4/
```

They contain:
  * `bin/`: Nothing, at first. But this folder contains executables if you build with autotools/make.
  * `libs/`: Nothing, at first. But this folder contains libraries if you build with autotools/make.
  * `benchmark/`: (Christian, could you please explain these scripts?)
  * `resources/`: Some images using the haggle logo.
  * `m4/`: These are a few m4 macro script files used by autotools.

# Documentation #

When haggle is configured with documentation support enabled, the `doc/` folder is the place where documentation generated from the source code is placed. The `doc/` folder also contains some manually created documentation. Please read the documentation in this folder.

# The source code #

The `extlibs/` folder contains some libraries that weren't created by the haggle team, but haggle uses. Here are copies of OpenSSL, LibXML and SQLite. On platforms where these libraries are not available by default, haggle will use these copies.

The `testsuite/` folder contains a test suite that is used to test the different components of haggle to ensure that they behave the same way on all the platforms that haggle is compiled for. The test suite has not been updated for some time, which is why the test suite reports problems on all the systems you can run it on.

The `src/` folder contains most of the source code for haggle, the programs provided with haggle, and some useful libraries. It has several subfolders:

```
 hagglekernel/
 utils/
 libcpphaggle/
 libhaggle/
 clitool/
 bbs/
 proxy/
 luckyMe/
 client/
 experimental/
 filedrop/
 webserver/
 tests/
```

`hagglekernel/` contains the source code to build the actual haggle kernel. How this source code is organized will be explained in another document.

`utils/` contains a C library of very useful functions for easy-to-use and platform independent code. Haggle uses it, and so does some of the other applications.

`libcpphaggle/` contains a C++ library of useful code that wasn't specific to haggle, and therefore could be useful outside. This includes some STL-like containers, other useful containers, some platform-independent threading code, and a template class that is used to provide reference counted garbage collection. The code is C++ specific, so it did not fit with the code in `utils/`.

`libhaggle/` is a C library that should be used by any program that uses haggle.

`clitool/` is a small tool used for debugging purposes. It can inject data objects and interests into haggle, and can impersonate any other program. It is very useful.

`bbs/` is a haggle-based bulletin board system. See [this](Applications.md) for more information.

`proxy/` is a haggle-based email server. See [this](Applications.md) for more information.

`luckyMe/` is a program used to... (could someone fill this in?)

`client/` is... (could someone fill this in?)

`experimental/` contains... (could someone fill this in?)

`filedrop/` is a program that... (could someone fill this in?)

`webserver/`... well,  see [this](Applications.md) for more information.

`tests/` contain... (could someone fill this in?)